The Biden administration
is asking Israel
to delay its ground incursion into Gaza.
That's
according to two sources
briefed on discussions
who say that the delay
would potentially allow
for both more negotiations
over the hostages
that Hamas took on October 7th
and also would allow for more
aid to be allowed
to be delivered
to innocent civilians in Gaza.
The sources say that Friday's
release of two American hostages,
Judith and Natalie Ronan
from outside Chicago,
signaled that negotiator
negotiators believed
they could make progress
on freeing
some of the more than 200 hostages
believed to be currently held by Hamas.
Joining me now to discuss
is the chairman of the House Select
Committee on Intelligence, Congressman
Mike Turner of Ohio.
Congressman, thank you so much
for joining us.
So two
American hostages were released by Hamas.
This is obviously a brutal
terrorist group.
They didn't release the hostages
out of the goodness of their hearts
or for humanitarian reasons.
So why did they release the hostages?
What did they get in exchange?
Well, certainly there continue
to have negotiations and discussions.
But what we're very aware of,
which, as you
just noted, is, you know,
Hamas is a franchise of Iran,
that the brutal terrorist attacks
that have occurred in
Israel are going to result in an Israel
entering into Gaza and in taking
this conflict to Hamas itself
in order to diminish their ability
to continue to to threaten Israel
as we see that unfold.
Certainly getting humanitarian
aid is important.
Getting the hostages back are important.
And as their opportunities
that those break, you know, certainly
they need to be pursued.
But if the United States
should not be dictating to Israel
the prosecution of this conflict,
they certainly are on the ground.
They know the risks.
They know the consequences.
And certainly the United States supports
their efforts to diminish this
this terrorist threat.
How involved were American officials
in securing the release
of these two American hostages?
And are you optimistic
more hostages might be released?
You know,
how do you know
how many more Americans
are currently being held
hostage in Gaza by Hamas?
You know, I would certainly
say that, you know,
Hamas needs to release all hostages
and certainly all American hostages.
You know,
there are some reports
that have been public now
that perhaps all of the Hamas
leadership was not aware
of the brutal terrorist attack
that was going to occur into Israel,
that maybe some surprise
and leadership of Hamas that they now
find themselves
with tanks on their borders
and a conflict going to ensue.
And they may see that
these hostages
are an important opportunity to
to return them back to Israel
and the United States
so that they can get out of the way
and hopefully address this issue of
how will they move
from a terrorist organization
and state
a franchise of Iran
to an area where there can be peace.
So obviously,
as the chairman of the House
Intelligence Committee,
you're a member of the Gang of Eight,
you get to see the very top
classified intelligence
who is responsible
for the explosion at the Baptist
Hospital in Gaza Tuesday, which
the Palestinian health ministry,
which which is obviously controlled
by Hamas, blamed on the Israelis.
But U.S.
intelligence seems to have concluded
it was
actually more likely
to have been caused
by Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
Who is responsible,
according to the evidence you've seen?
And how conclusive is that intelligence?
Well, my my counterpart,
ranking member
Jim Himes from Connecticut,
the two of us received a briefing
that included
not just the conclusions
by the administration,
but also the assessment.
What was the process undertaken
in order to determine
that this was not the fault of Israel?
And both of us concluded, in fact,
we released a statement
that we concur with
the administration's conclusion
that this was not a result
of Israeli action.
There are there is a Democratic member
of Congress who is out there
still blaming it on Israel.
And I've heard some members
say that she should be briefed.
And I'm wondering,
is there an intelligence briefing
being offered to members of Congress
so that everyone can be informed
as to what the the latest information is?
Sure.
William
Tracey has actually done
a very good job of pulling together
both the leadership in the House.
We've been to the
meeting with Jake
Sullivan and National Security Council
and
getting their information
and get a briefing directly from him.
Plus all of the House of Representatives.
We're called into a briefing
where we both had
the Office of Director
of National Intelligence
and the Department of Defense.
So there's been a tremendous
amount of effort
to get information to members.
And I think this is very important,
as it has been in the Ukraine conflict,
especially as the administration moves
forward to look for an aid package
to get through Congress
for both the conflicts in Ukraine and
and Israel.
Based on what you know,
do you think the Israelis
are doing enough
to protect the innocent civilians
in Gaza?
I'm sure you've heard Israeli
leadership say that
Palestinians are victims
of Hamas as well.
And then they are.
I mean, there is no question, you know,
there was an election in which Hamas
came to power in Gaza
and then suspended all elections
and certainly the people in Gaza
are captive to them.
And they're certainly
a brutal terrorist organization
that that is is ruling that.
And I do think
that the people in the Palestinians
in Gaza are victims of them as well.
Israel has done
a great deal of effort
to try to get people
to move out of the way
as they go in to try to remove Hamas
and its
ability to execute terrorist acts.
This certainly is going to be very,
very difficult.
I don't
do know that the United States is working
both on the intelligence side
and the strategy side
with Israel
to try to determine ways to increase
the the the security
of Palestinians in the area
who are not involved in Hamas.
But this is obviously going to be
be very, very difficult.
And it it goes both to the
the security
and safety of the Palestinians
and the Israelis that must be removed.
President Biden just announced
a $105 billion aid package
for Israel, Ukraine,
Taiwan and the southern border.
Obviously,
the legislative branch
of the United States government
can't do anything
until House Republicans pick a speaker.
A Do you support the package?
B.
At what point does
the dysfunction of House Republicans
jeopardize national security?
Right.
I do support the package.
I think it's incredibly important
that we move forward
to make certain that we stand up
against the authoritarian regimes
that are trying to undermine democracies
that are our allies.
I think also that we should be more
focused on Russia
as a threat to the United States
than we've have been,
because this is not
just an issue of Ukraine or not Ukraine.
This is an issue of
Russia's our adversary,
and they intend to do us
and our allies harm.
And of course, with Israel,
this is one that has great clarity.
We've all seen and have just
been saddened by the atrocities
that we've seen
and the need for
addressing the issue of Hamas
with respect to the national security.
Clearly, having a house
that's not function is
is certainly a security
threat for our country.
The this
aid package,
though, is not being delayed
as a result of the House.
At this point, the Senate has taken up
this aid package.
It looks like
it will be about two weeks before
that package
comes out of the Senate itself.
And certainly we all hope
we'll have a speaker by that.
There are seven candidates
so far for speaker.
Is there
one that you particularly
are leaning towards
and do you think that
that person can get 217 votes?
You're getting 217
is obviously going to be very difficult.
And is his the sort of Rubik's
cube of of the answer to all of this?
I supported Kevin McCarthy.
I supported Jim Jordan.
I supported Scalise.
I supported Jim on the floor also.
I think we need to find someone
who hopefully can get to
to 17 before
we're all poised
and very drama fashion on the House floor
trying to determine how this will unfold.
I really hope in the next several days
as we come together
as the Republican caucus,
that we're able to resolve that
so that we go
unified to the House floor
and deliver a speaker.
I hope you don't take this personally,
but do you guys have any
idea how clownish you look?
Well, you know,
Jake, I'm
very fond of saying that
Congress is a lot like high school,
but even more so.
So hopefully we'll get past this.
And, you know,
I certainly have been part
of the governing majority,
and I'm going to stay part of that
and look forward to
those who are on the fringes,
hopefully coming together.
So that we can get as speaker.
I said that to Congressman
Womack last week in high school,
and he said that that's an insult
to high school students.
It's more like junior high.
Congressman Turner,
Chairman Turner, good to see you.
I hope you guys pick the speaker
sometime soon.
Thanks, Jake.